# Crime_data_analysis
Chicago Crime data Analysis with R and Spark

Crime is most commonly defined and understood worldwide as an “unlawful activity” and a socio-economic issue which effects everyone and every country. It’s not only a social problem but it can cause serious damage to a region’s economic strength and growth by determining whether people and businesses want to move or avoid certain countries/regions/places. But as a matter of fact, every country in this world must face this epidemic and try controlling, managing and reducing crime for the betterment of its citizens and enhancing its economic prowess.  With the increase of crimes, several law enforcement agencies in different countries are falling back to advanced data mining and machine learning techniques also known as predictive policing [1] to improve knowledge about crimes and protect their citizens. For instance “Dubai police launch Crime Prediction” or “Predictive policing substantially reduces crime in Los Angeles during months-long test” are few examples how AI and ML with Big Data is helping law enforcement.

Continuing with the above introduction, the highlighted issue is how to apply data science and machine learning methodologies to understand more about crimes at a particular region using historical dataset and provide high probability of a specific type of crime which might occur next in a specific location within a particular time frame. Building a successful high accuracy algorithm to predict where crime would be more prevalent will benefit the citizens and law enforcement authorities. With more knowledge and information about the crime which might occur in future would allow law enforcement authorities to better plan resource allocation to high crime zones. But a bad algorithm or prediction can create havoc or embarrassment to the authorities. So, to have better accuracy with predictions (algorithms) and better insights for action we need to follow the basics of data science which would include going through the different phases of a data analytics lifecycle, which also includes framing Initial Hypotheses. The high-level phases of analytics life cycle and a Data science workflow is as given below:

